release chapter updates and addition of example interaction with service discovery (#58)
adoptingerlang/adoptingerlang: adoptingerlang.org

The order the applications are listed is important here. When constructing the boot script a stable sort on all applications based on their dependencies is done to decide the order to start them. This means that while the order is based on sorting the applications based on their runtime dependencies, when no dependency requires moving an application in the list (both the list given in the =relx= config and the lists of applications in each =.app= file) the defined order is kept. Each of =service_discovery_postgres=, =service_discovery_http= and =service_discovery_grpc= depend on =service_discovery= resulting in it being the first of those four to start and the next will be =service_discovery_postgres= because it is listed before the other two. This is important because we need the storage backend available before the HTTP and grpc services are usable.

> =rebar3 release= runs =relx= with configuration based on the =relx= section of =rebar.config= and the rebar3 project structure so =relx= can find the necessary applications for building the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=rebar3 release= runs =relx= with a configuration based on the =relx= section of =rebar.config= and the rebar3 project structure, allowing =relx= to find the necessary applications for building the release.
```

    └── V2__Add_updated_at_trigger.sql
#+END_SRC

There are no symlinks under =lib= and OTP applications like =stdlib-3.8.1= are included. At the top of the tree is =erts-10.4.4= which contains the Erlang runtime.

To build the target system of the release we run the =tar= command in the =prod= profile:

#+BEGIN_SRC shell
$ rebar3 as prod tar
#+END_SRC

Now we have a tarball =_build/prod/rel/service_discovery/service_discovery-c9e1c805d57a78d9eb18af1124962960abe38e70.tar.gz= that can be copied to any compatible host, unpacked and run.

*** Runtime Configuration

> In the =service_discovery= project we have two files for configuration under the =config/= directory, =vm.args.src= and =sys.config.src=, that are included in the release. These files act as templates to be filled in at runtime based on environment variables. There are two separate files because running a release involves two levels of configuration. First, there is the underlying Erlang virtual machine's settings. These values have to be set before the VM has started, so they cannot be part of a term file like =sys.config= which requires a running VM to read and parse the Erlang term file. Instead, the VM arguments are passed directly to =erl= -- =erl= being the command used to boot our release. To simplify this the =erl= command has an =-args_file= argument to allow command-line arguments to be read from a plain text file. This file is commonly named =vm.args=.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the =service_discovery= project we have two files for configuration under the =config/= directory that are included in the release: =vm.args.src= and =sys.config.src=. These files act as templates to be filled in at runtime based on environment variables. There are two separate files because running a release involves two levels of configuration. First, there is the underlying Erlang virtual machine's settings. These values have to be set before the VM has started, so they cannot be part of a term file like =sys.config= which requires a running VM to read and parse the Erlang term file. Instead, the VM arguments are passed directly to =erl= -- =erl= being the command used to boot a release. To simplify this, the =erl= command has an =-args_file= argument to allow command-line arguments to be read from a plain text file. This file is commonly named =vm.args=.
```

#+BEGIN_SRC shell
$ LOGGER_LEVEL=debug SCHEDULERS=1 _build/default/rel/service_discovery/bin/service_discovery console
Erlang/OTP 21 [erts-10.4.4] [source] [64-bit] [smp:1:1] [ds:1:1:10] [async-threads:30] [hipe]
...
#+END_SRC

*** Coming Up

> To get a feel for what we will be doing in the next chapters, copy =_build/prod/rel/service_discovery/service_discovery-c9e1c805d57a78d9eb18af1124962960abe38e70.tar.gz= to =/tmp/service_discovery=, unpack it and start the node. Here I am assuming that the necessary environment variables are already exported and not repeating them on the line running the bin script's commands.

Reviewer: How would someone check if they have the right environment variables defined?

Author: Yea, I'll just add the exports.

$ tar -xvf service_discovery-c9e1c805d57a78d9eb18af1124962960abe38e70.tar.gz && rm service_discovery-c9e1c805d57a78d9eb18af1124962960abe38e70.tar.gz
...
$ ls
bin  erts-10.4.4  lib  releases
$ bin/service_discovery console
...
(service_discovery@localhost)1>
#+END_SRC

> Running with =console= gives an interactive Erlang shell. To run the release without an interactive shell use =foreground=, which is how we will be running the release in a Docker container in the next chapter. With the release running with =foreground= or =console= open a separate terminal and try the same script with the argument =remote_console=:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running with =console= gives an interactive Erlang shell. To run the release without an interactive shell use =foreground=, which is how we will be running the release in a Docker container in the next chapter. With the release running with =foreground= or =console=, open a separate terminal and try the same script with the argument =remote_console=:
```
